What is STLC and Explain the stages?
What is Nyquist rate?
What is sanity Testing,Regression testing,performance testing?
Explain Network Protocol(MQTT) and MQTT Architecture. How to reduce Duplication of packet on MQTT broker?
What Is fix data packet and variable length data packet?
What Is QOS (quality of service) ?
How handshaking between Client and MQTT broker happen?
Describe about the performance testing using QXDM tool.
What is a logmass in QXDM.
How the crashes are collected and What is the need of crash logs.
Tell me about the RF testing.
Difference in Application testing and Device testing ?
What is the framework you have used for writing the Python scripts (For Automation) ?
Where unit test will be performed?
What is automation testing and manual testing?
What is integration testing?
What is the interface for MTF?
CIT and MTF is used for which target sanity testing?
Explain about QMITESTPRO?
If loadbuild is failed where do you check?
How to get QXDM logs?
What is QMI Test Pro?
How many types of log analysis are ther in QXDM?
What is crash scope?
If device is crashed? What you will do?
What is ATM? What is the use of ATM (Automated test manager)?
What is Smoke Testing?
What is Real Testing?
What is Re-testing?
What is Regression Testing?
What is Sanity Testing?
What is White Box Testing?
What is Black Box Testing?
What is Grey Box Testing?
What are the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases?
What is fundamental test process in software testing?
What is the difference between white box, black box, and gray box testing?
What is V-model- advantages, disadvantages and when to use it?
What is Software Testing? Why is software testing necessary?
What are Software Testing Levels?
What is Component integration testing?
When do defects in software testing arise?
What is impact analysis? 
When what is visible to end-users is a deviation from the specific or expected behavior, this is called?
When Testing should be stopped?
What is functional & Non-functional system testing?
What is System testing?
What is Defect or bugs or faults in software testing?
What is Verification & Validation in software testing?
What is Waterfall model- advantages, disadvantages and when to use it?
What is Incremental model- advantages, disadvantages and when to use it?
What is agile model – advantages, disadvantages and when to use it?
When do Software testing activities should start?
What is the main reason for testing software before releasing it?
Difference between Volume, Load and stress testing in software?
What is Compliance testing in software testing?
What is Stress testing in software testing?
What is test coverage in software testing? 
What is Use case testing in software testing?
What is traceability in Software testing?
What is risk in software testing?
Explain Test Automation Strategy
Explain Guidelines for Testing  Web Application & Desktop Applications
What is the difference between Testing Techniques and Testing Tools?
Write functional Test Cases to Test different types of media file like mp3, mp4, 3gp containing audio, videos
Write an automated test case for Detecting All Supported Gestures in android
Write Test scenario for reading temperature data from Device.
Write Test scenario for Read the voltage from the sensor.
Which test cases are written first: white boxes or black boxes
What are different system testing for Android? Explain
Explain Android testing framework?
Write a Test scripts which display “Username or password is incorrect” for UI interface
What do you check in GUI Testing? Write 5 GUI Testing Test Cases

